README.md, before:

# lazyops: Lazy Operations Toolkit (lzl / lzo)

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/lazyops.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/lazyops)
<!-- Add other badges here later: e.g., Build Status, Code Coverage -->

A Python library providing a collection of utility modules (`lzl`) and object registry patterns (`lzo`) for building robust applications.

## ⚠️ Project Status: Under Active Refactoring

This library is currently undergoing a major refactoring (targeting version `v0.3.x` and above).

The core functionality is being migrated from the older `lazyops` namespace (versions `v0.2.x` and below) into two distinct, more focused namespaces:

*   **`lzl` (Lazy Libraries/Utilities):** Contains foundational utilities, asynchronous helpers, common API client interfaces, I/O operations, logging, type definitions, and more.
*   **`lzo` (Lazy Objects/Registry):** Provides object registry patterns, state management, settings configuration, and related functionalities.

Expect potential API changes and improvements during this transition. The previous `v0.2.x` implementation is available under the corresponding git tag if needed.

---

### Installation

Install the latest version from PyPI:

```bash
pip install --upgrade lazyops
```

Or install directly from GitHub for the latest development version:

```bash
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/trisongz/lazyops.git
```

---

### Basic Usage (Illustrative)

```python
# Import from the new namespaces
import lzl
import lzo

# Example using lzl logging (assuming configuration)
from lzl.logging import logger
logger.info("Logging configured via lzl!")

# Example using lzo registry (illustrative)
# Assuming 'my_settings' are registered somewhere
from lzo.registry import settings
# app_config = settings['my_settings']
# print(f"Loaded setting: {app_config.some_value}")

# Example using lzl utils (e.g., async helper)
# import asyncio
# from lzl.utils import run_as_coro
#
# def my_sync_function(x):
#    return x * 2
#
# async def main():
#    result = await run_as_coro(my_sync_function, 5)
#    print(f"Async result: {result}")
#
# asyncio.run(main())

```
*(More detailed usage examples will be added as the refactoring progresses).*

---

### Core Dependencies

*   Python 3.7+
*   [pydantic](https://github.com/pydantic/pydantic): Used for data validation and settings management.
*   Other foundational libraries used internally (e.g., `aiohttpx`, `loguru`, `async_lru`).

*(A more detailed dependency list will be maintained in `setup.py` or `pyproject.toml`)*.

---

### Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read the **[`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md)** file for guidelines on code style, formatting, type hinting, docstrings, and the development process.

---

### License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Add documentation and expand lzo registry/type/utils tests
Introduces new README files for lzo.registry, lzo.types, and lzo.utils modules, and adds Mintlify documentation workflow instructions. Expands Makefile with granular test targets for registry, types, and utils. Updates registry, types, and utils modules to include curated __all__ lists and improves code style, type hints, and docstrings. Adds initial test files for registry, types, and utils. Updates documentation to clarify code style, future updates, and module highlights.

README.md, after:

# lazyops: Lazy Operations Toolkit (lzl / lzo)

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/lazyops.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/lazyops)
<!-- Add other badges here later: e.g., Build Status, Code Coverage -->

A Python library providing a collection of utility modules (`lzl`) and object registry patterns (`lzo`) for building robust applications.

## ⚠️ Project Status: Under Active Refactoring

This library is currently undergoing a major refactoring (targeting version `v0.3.x` and above).

The core functionality is being migrated from the older `lazyops` namespace (versions `v0.2.x` and below) into two distinct, more focused namespaces:

*   **`lzl` (Lazy Libraries/Utilities):** Contains foundational utilities, asynchronous helpers, common API client interfaces, I/O operations, logging, type definitions, and more.
*   **`lzo` (Lazy Objects/Registry):** Provides object registry patterns, state management, settings configuration, and related functionalities.

Expect potential API changes and improvements during this transition. The previous `v0.2.x` implementation is available under the corresponding git tag if needed.

---

### Installation

Install the latest version from PyPI:

```bash
pip install --upgrade lazyops
```

Or install directly from GitHub for the latest development version:

```bash
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/trisongz/lazyops.git
```

---

### Basic Usage (Illustrative)

```python
# Import from the new namespaces
import lzl
import lzo

# Example using lzl logging (assuming configuration)
from lzl.logging import logger
logger.info("Logging configured via lzl!")

# Example using lzo registry (illustrative)
# Assuming 'my_settings' are registered somewhere
from lzo.registry import settings
# app_config = settings['my_settings']
# print(f"Loaded setting: {app_config.some_value}")

# Example using lzl utils (e.g., async helper)
# import asyncio
# from lzl.utils import run_as_coro
#
# def my_sync_function(x):
#    return x * 2
#
# async def main():
#    result = await run_as_coro(my_sync_function, 5)
#    print(f"Async result: {result}")
#
# asyncio.run(main())

```
*(More detailed usage examples will be added as the refactoring progresses).*

---

### Module Highlights

- **`lzo.registry`** – Provides the `MRegistry` core with hook support for
  pre/post instantiation along with helpers for registering clients and
  settings.  See `src/lzo/registry/README.md` for an overview and run
  `make test-lzo-registry` to exercise the accompanying tests.
- **`lzo.types`** – Re-exports the LazyOps pydantic wrappers such as
  `BaseSettings` and `BaseModel`, streamlining environment-aware
  configuration.  Quick-start examples live in `src/lzo/types/README.md` and
  can be validated with `make test-lzo-types`.
- **`lzo.utils`** – Collects lightweight helper modules (retry decorators,
  key generators, formatting utilities) that avoid heavy dependencies.  The
  façade README at `src/lzo/utils/README.md` highlights the most common entry
  points; run `make test-lzo-utils` to confirm everything behaves as
  documented.

---

### Core Dependencies

*   Python 3.7+
*   [pydantic](https://github.com/pydantic/pydantic): Used for data validation and settings management.
*   Other foundational libraries used internally (e.g., `aiohttpx`, `loguru`, `async_lru`).

*(A more detailed dependency list will be maintained in `setup.py` or `pyproject.toml`)*.

---

### Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read the **[`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md)** file for guidelines on code style, formatting, type hinting, docstrings, and the development process.

---

### License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) file for details.
